# Jennifer Sheng (jss8ny) iOS App
Starter Template for the iOS UVA Bucket List app

# Special Features:
When looking at my main screen, one special feature you will notice is that the pre-populated data is divided into two sections in the table: “Not completed” and “Completed”. Bucket list items will automatically be put into its respective section based on whether it is complete or not. 

Additionally, for the items in the “Completed” section, the design of these cells have a green background tint as well as a muted font color to further emphasize that the item has been completed. For items in the “Not Completed” section, if the due date of the item is past due – either due today or due a date that was before today – the text of the due date line in the cell will be red, indicating urgency that the item has not yet been completed.

Another special feature of the app is that each bucket list item can be deleted by swiping right on a specific item. When the swipe is initiated, a red delete button will appear on the right side of the cell and can be clicked to delete the item. Such changes will be made apparent in the list.

# What I Learned:
After having built an app in Android, I was surprised to see such differences in how these two platforms are built. Compared to building an Android app, iOS seemed to have a less steep learning curve, where it was not only easier to understand the architecture of the app as a whole, but moreover, it was more intuitive to read and write the code to accomplish the desired functionalities I was trying to implement. Many of the features I had used were much easier to set up and integrate into the system compared to the multi-step process required to set them up in an Android environment.

Specifically, I found that less information needed to be passed from screen to screen in order to move from one functionality to another. Rather than using intents, storyboards allowed me to connect a button or some other entity to the screen and by doing so, automatically connected the two together such that when it is tapped, it will move to the designated screen. Additionally, the use of segues to pass information from one screen to another was easier since there were less moving parts to consider when figuring out what function calls need to be made and how those functions relate to the information that needs to be passed.

From a design standpoint, it also took less time to think about what the UI of the app would look like because of Cocoa Touch and the restrictions Apple enforces when building screens. The lack of required thinking as to how the app would look not only makes it more intuitive and cohesive with other apps Apple users have seen, but it also added to the speedy build process of the app when deciding what each screen would look like. With the use of storyboard specifically, one is able to really play around with the look and feel of each functionality on a screen. While some of this ease can possibly be due to the fact that I am an avid Apple user, it still seems like the drag and drop type of method used for storyboards, coupled with Cocoa Touch allows apps to be designed quickly and really feel like it fits in with the rest of the ecosystem.

Even with a more inherent understanding of the platform, it is not to say building the app did not come without its complications. When trying to find tutorials to reference when building the app, there would be different packages people would use in order to implement essentially the same functionalities. Because of this variance, trying to piece together different parts of tutorials caused some confusion and many times what I would try to implement would either fail to build or crash once built. In some cases, even when the app would not crash, the implementation only would work for specific cases or would not do what I had intended. There would be times where I would implement something that would not be compatible with the rest of what I had already built, leading to having to search for several alternatives to what would have otherwise been a simple implementation.

Besides the variation of implementations, many tutorials were not up to date, as they would use older versions of Swift. While this may not seem like such a major issue, differences in syntax and depreciated functions and libraries caused many errors to pop up. Many of the solutions for issues I was facing would not be where I would need to find them or would simply be solutions that were out of date. In some cases, finding the solution to one problem would cause other unexpected issues, ones in which I would not have expected to have been an issue otherwise. At times it felt as though with each portion of the app working separately, many things needed to be checked to ensure everything was updating together properly.

Overall, building this app seemed to go more smoothly than building the Android app for me. Whether it is because I already had an idea of what the app would look like, seemingly less complicated syntax and architecture, or simply more familiarity with Apple products as a whole, the combination of all of these factors allowed me to more seamlessly implement this bucket list app. It felt both cleaner and easier to understand what was going on with the little knowledge about building an iOS app I had come in with and even with a few hiccups during the process, there was less confusion about how each moving part works with each other and how to get the app to behave the certain way that was desired.
